# 🎨 Palettes

The `use_palette` is the gateway to all of Neopywal's palette configuration, with it you select which custom palette you want Neopywal to use, as well as selecting built-in palettes from the plugin source code.

## How to Use

The use palette option can be set both as a string specifying a palette you want to always be loaded, or a table where a specific palette is only loaded once Neopywal loads either the `dark` or `light` theme variant. Here's an example:

```lua
require("neopywal").setup({
    -- Setting `use_palette` to be a string will make it so Neopywal loads the specified palette
    -- (in this case "doomone") on both `dark` and `light` theme variants.
    use_palette = "doomone",

    -- You can also set it as a table specifying which type of palette you want
    -- to load for each of Neopywal's theme variants.
    use_palette = {
        dark = "tokyonight",
        light = "doomone"
    },
})
```

You can also set a path for the colorscheme template file you want to load. Take note that the file **MUST** be a vim script file containing a code structure similar to what is exported with pywal's template file located at `~/.cache/wal/colors-wal.vim`

Contents for pywal's template file using an example [catppuccin-mocha](https://github.com/catppuccin/catppuccin) palette:

```vim
" Special
let wallpaper  = "/home/user/Pictures/wallpaper.png" " This option is ignored by Neopywal.
let background = "#1E1E2E"
let foreground = "#CDD6F4"
let cursor     = "#CDD6F4"

" Colors
let color0  = "#45475A"
let color1  = "#F38BA8"
let color2  = "#A6E3A1"
let color3  = "#F9E2AF"
let color4  = "#89B4FA"
let color5  = "#F5C2E7"
let color6  = "#94E2D5"
let color7  = "#BAC2DE"
let color8  = "#585B70"
let color9  = "#F38BA8"
let color10 = "#A6E3A1"
let color11 = "#F9E2AF"
let color12 = "#89B4FA"
let color13 = "#F5C2E7"
let color14 = "#94E2D5"
let color15 = "#A6ADC8"
```

And here's how you would configure Neopywal to load such template file using it's file path.

```lua
require("neopywal").setup({
    use_palette = {
        -- Note that the file path for Pywal's default template file was used only for demonstration purposes.
        dark = os.getenv("HOME") .. "/.cache/wal/colors-wal.vim"
        light = os.getenv("HOME") .. "/my/personal/file/path/template.vim",
    }
})
```

By default, both "dark" and "light" theme variants from the `use_palette` option are set to be "pywal", that means that, by default, Neopywal looks for the colorscheme template file `~/.cache/wal/colors-wal.vim` that's automatically generated by pywal itself when it sets up a new colorscheme.

```lua
require("neopywal").setup({
    -- Here are the default values set for the `use_palette` option.
    use_palette = {
        dark = "pywal",
        light = "pywal",
    },
})
```

## Built-in Palettes

Unlike many famous Neovim colorschemes, Neopywal does not offer any alternative palettes on it's own. Instead, it relies solely on the palette generated by Pywal at the time of using the plugin. However that gives Neopywal an advantage over other colorschemes, that being the `extreme modularity` with the palette used by the plugin.

You can easily use any well-known colorscheme palette with Neopywal without much effort. If you don't want to use an auto-generated Pywal palette based on a low-quality wallpaper, you can always opt for a richer palette like "catppuccin" or "tokyonight" at any time.

To achieve this, just use the `use_palette` option with one of the following available colorscheme palette names that can be found in this [directory](../lua/neopywal/palettes/)

To use any of the available built-in colorscheme palettes, simply specify one of the names from the list in the `use_palette` option.

```lua
require("neopywal").setup({
    use_palette = "catppuccin-mocha"

    -- or

    use_palette = {
        dark = "doomone"
        light = "tokyonight"
    }
})
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> I did not create nor do not own any rights to the colorschemes mentioned/present in the palettes/ directory.
> Neopywal simply takes a base stripped down 16 color template of each of the themes to create it's own nvim colorscheme settings.

\
If you want to actively use any of the themes present in Neopywal's palette/ directory, consider using their own Neovim colorscheme plugins (if they have it) for a more consistent experience than what you would get from using them within Neopywal.

## Pywal Alternatives

Pywal has been officially deprecated on April 26, 2024. So it's not recommend to use it anymore. However, there are other projects which can replace Pywal and that also work with this plugin. Here are a few examples.

1. [Pywal16](https://github.com/eylles/pywal16) by [ellyes](https://github.com/eylles), which is a drop-in replacement for Pywal, so no extra work has to be done.
2. [Wallust](https://codeberg.org/explosion-mental/wallust) by [explosion-mental](https://codeberg.org/explosion-mental), which requires some additional configuration to work with Neopywal.

If you plan on using Wallust, here's a guide on how to set it up with Neopywal:

After installing Wallust, you will need to create two files. The first is a template file that should be located on `~/.config/wallust/templates/colors_neopywal.vim`, the second is the default configuration file for Wallust, which should be created at `~/.config/wallust/wallust.toml`.

Here are the contents that should be copied of to them:

Contents of the `~/.config/wallust/templates/colors_neopywal.vim` file:

```vim
let background = "{{background}}"
let foreground = "{{foreground}}"
let cursor = "{{cursor}}"
let color0 = "{{color0}}"
let color1 = "{{color1}}"
let color2 = "{{color2}}"
let color3 = "{{color3}}"
let color4 = "{{color4}}"
let color5 = "{{color5}}"
let color6 = "{{color6}}"
let color7 = "{{color7}}"
let color8 = "{{color8}}"
let color9 = "{{color9}}"
let color10 = "{{color10}}"
let color11 = "{{color11}}"
let color12 = "{{color12}}"
let color13 = "{{color13}}"
let color14 = "{{color14}}"
let color15 = "{{color15}}"
```

Contents of the `~/.config/wallust/wallust.toml` file:

```toml
neopywal.template = "templates/colors_neopywal.vim"
neopywal.target = "~/.cache/wallust/colors_neopywal.vim"
```

After everything has been setup, you need to update Neopywal's `use_palette` option, luckily there's a built-in option for that so you won't have to specify the full path of the template file that's generated by Wallust.

```lua
require("neopywal").setup({
    -- Note how you only need to set "wallust" as the configuration
    -- value for the `use_palette` option.
    use_palette = "wallust"

    -- And obviously, you can do the same for a table instead.
    use_palette = {
        dark = "wallust",
        light = "tokyonight"
    }
})
```

Configuring this option makes Neopywal automatically read the template file that will be generated by Wallust on `~/.cache/wallust/colors_neopywal.vim`, and with that Neopywal should work exactly the same as if you were using Pywal.
